TELCODOCS-1841: Configuring disk encryption with PCR protection (#80996)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ztp-sno-du-disk-encryption.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-reference-cluster-configuration-for-vdu.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ztp-sno-du-disk-encryption_{context}"]
= About disk encryption with TPM and PCR protection

You can use the `diskEncryption` field in the `SiteConfig` custom resource (CR) to configure disk encryption with Trusted Platform Module (TPM) and Platform Configuration Registers (PCRs) protection. 

TPM is a hardware component that stores cryptographic keys and evaluates the security state of your system. PCRs within the TPM store hash values that represent the current hardware and software configuration of your system. You can use the following PCR registers to protect the encryption keys for disk encryption:

* PCR 1: Represents the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) state.

> * PCR 7: Represents the secure boot state. 

Reviewer: Future suggestion: Maybe consider using a [definition list](https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/lists/description/#basic-description-list) here?

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-reference-cluster-configuration-for-vdu.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ztp-sno-du-disk-encryption_{context}"]
= About disk encryption with TPM and PCR protection

You can use the `diskEncryption` field in the `SiteConfig` custom resource (CR) to configure disk encryption with Trusted Platform Module (TPM) and Platform Configuration Registers (PCRs) protection. 

TPM is a hardware component that stores cryptographic keys and evaluates the security state of your system. PCRs within the TPM store hash values that represent the current hardware and software configuration of your system. You can use the following PCR registers to protect the encryption keys for disk encryption:

* PCR 1: Represents the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) state.
* PCR 7: Represents the secure boot state. 

The TPM safeguards encryption keys by linking them to the system's current state, as recorded in PCR 1 and PCR 7. The `dmcrypt` utility uses these keys to encrypt the disk. 

> During the system boot process or when the encrypted disk is accessed, the TPM checks the PCR values against the system's current state to determine if the encryption keys can be released. If the PCR values match, the keys are used to decrypt the disk when needed. If the PCR values do not match, the encryption keys cannot be released, and the disk remains encrypted and inaccessible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the system boot process, dmcrypt uses the TPM PCR values to unlock the disk. If the current PCR values match with a know good state of the system, the unlock succeeds. If the PCR values do not match, the encryption keys cannot be released, and the disk remains encrypted and inaccessible.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> For more information about TPM, see "TPM encryption".

Reviewer 3: I don't know if this is necessary given that you have an xref to it in the assembly file and it comes directly after this module in the Additional resource sections.

Author: I agree. It makes sense to remove this.

= About disk encryption with PCR protection

You can configure disk encryption by using the `diskEncryption` field in the `SiteConfig` custom resource (CR).

When you enable disk encryption, the disks are encrypted with Platform Configuration Registers (PCRs) protection. PCR within the TPM store hash values that represent the current hardware and software configuration of your system. You can use the following PCR registers:

* PCR 1: Represents the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) state.
* PCR 7: Represents the secure boot state.

The Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is a component that stores cryptographic keys and evaluates the security state of your system. 
 TPM safeguards encryption keys by linking them to the system's current state, as recorded in PCR 1 and PCR 7. The `dmcrypt` utility uses these keys to encrypt the disk. TPM uses these PCR values to unlock the encryption keys, which are then used to decrypt the disk whenever required. If the server is moved or tampered with, the TPM PCR keys cannot be replicated, and the disk remains encrypted and inaccessible.

For more information about TPM, see "TPM encryption".

[NOTE]

> ====

Reviewer 4: Use the TP snippet for this, for example:
```
:FeatureName: Configuring disk encryption by using the `diskEncryption` field in the `SiteConfig` CR
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
:!FeatureName:
```

https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#indicating-technology-preview-features

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.
